Welcome to this demo on compartments and identity domains. So as you recall from the theory lesson, compartments are nothing but logical containers for your resources. And identity domains you can think of them as containers for your users, groups, and security configuration.

So in this particular demo, we are going to create a compartment named sandbox, and then we are going to create an identity domain call it sandbox domain. And we will put some users as part of that identity domain. So let's get started.

As you can see here, I am logged in to my OCI console. And to bring up identity compartments and identity domains, I'll click on the navigation menu and click on Identity and Security. And you will see all the Identity Services listed here. And some of the security services are listed here as well.

So to bring up compartments, I'll click on Compartments here. And from this place, I can go ahead and create a compartment. So I can see here that I have a root compartment, which is also my tenancy.

And within that compartment, I have a couple of other compartments which exist and development. And there is another compartment which is used for our platform services. So you can see here all the compartments which are available in my account are subcompartments for the account, for the root compartment itself.

So you can see here it says two subcompartments because this compartment, the account has two other compartments existing. And also this development compartment also has a subcompartment. So you can see here.

So you can nest these compartments up to six levels deep. So that's what you're seeing here. So let's go ahead and create a new compartment here. We'll call this compartment sandbox.

And right here, I have an option to create this as a security zone. We actually discussed security zone later in the course. So I'll skip it for now. And you can click this is all it takes can click Create Compartment, and now you will see that a compartment called sandbox gets created. It will take a couple of seconds to do it. So let me just refresh the page.

And now you can see that the sandbox compartment is created. And if I click on the sandbox compartment, I can see that I can rename it. I have certain other actions I can take. And I can create a child compartment here up to six levels deep. I can nest compartments.

So the thing which I really want to see is if I go to governance and administration and bring up tenancy management, I can actually look at what resources exist within my tenancy. So right here I can see in my root account, my tenancy, I have a few resources which are existing. I have Cloud Guard enabled here and so on and so forth.

You can see there are some users. There is a Virtual Cloud Network, et cetera, which exist. If I click on the sandbox compartment, you can see that there are no resources which are found in this compartment because we just created this compartment.

So this is a nice way to see what resources exist in your compartment. You can-- because as you are creating resources you might not be keeping track on where these resources exist. Using the Tenancy Explorer, you can actually figure out which resources exist as part of your compartments. So let's-- having created compartment, let's go and create an identity domain.

So similar to compartments, identity domains exist within the identity menu here. And you can access them by clicking on domains. So if you click on domains, this will bring up the menu to create an identity domain. You can see that there is a default domain, which exists, which is the current domain.

So to creating-- to create a domain it's pretty straightforward process. So click on the domain-- create domain button there. And let's provide a name for this domain. So we'll say this is the sandbox domain.

And right here I can see domain types. So I can choose a free option or I have other SKUs which I can get into this as a foundational course. So we're not getting into a lot of details there.

And I can create an administrative user for this domain. I'm going to skip this for now. I'm not going to do that.

And then it asks where do I want to create this domain. I can actually create this domain in the root, or I could actually create it in the sandbox compartment we created. So I'll go ahead and create this in the root compartment.

And I'll click Create here. And I have to choose the SKU here. I'll say it's a free SKU. And I'll create the domain.

And that's how simple it is to create an identity domain. And remember, again, similar to compartments, identity domains are containers for your users, groups, and security configuration. So the way it is used is let's say I have a sandbox compartment where I'm using this compartment for testing purposes. So I could have a select Setup of users and groups, which are involved with this testing, and I could keep them in this sandbox domain identity domain.

And once I no longer use them, I can delete all these user subgroups. It's a nice way to segregate your users, groups, and security configuration. So let me just refresh this page and see if the identity domain is created.

And as you can see here, took a few seconds and the sandbox domain is created. So if I click here, you can see in my default domain, I have six users and four groups. But in the sandbox domain, if I click here, I can see that there are no users.

So in the next demo, we are going to create a user here, and also going to create a group here. And as you can see here, it's just more than users and groups. It's also all your security configurations like MFA dynamic groups, et cetera.

So this was a quick demo on how to create compartments and create identity domain. I hope you found this demo useful. Thanks for watching. 