Welcome back. In this particular lesson, let's quickly look at how you can set up your tenancy or your account. Well, so until now, we saw that there is a tenancy administrator. This is the person who creates an account and is kind of responsible for day to day operations of this account.

But a best practice is to not have tenancy administrator do kind of day to day operations, but rather have somebody who is an admin for your particular account. And this can be a set of users, not just one person. And you can group all of them under this, like a group such as OCI admin here. And then you write policies for this particular group, and let them operate on their own specific compartments.

So let me talk about some of these things which are shown in the graphic here. So the first thing here, kind of a best practice is what I just said, don't use the tenancy administrator account for day to day operations. You should not be doing that.

The second best practice is to create dedicated compartments to isolate resources as is shown here. So there's a sandbox compartment. It could be a compartment for a production, or development, or a business unit, or it could be a region based compartment, or whichever way you want to isolate your resources.

These compartments are available across all regions. So when I say region based, meaning you could say North America uses this compartment, and Europe uses this compartment, et cetera. So you could isolate your resources in kind of a geographically based on where your users are. But you should have individual compartments. You should not put everything under the root compartment.

And then the third best practice is to enforce the use of multi-factor authentication. And the idea with multi-factor authentication, it's a method for authentication that requires the use of more than one factor to verify a user's identity. So it would be something like a password, something you know, and a device, something you have.

So these are the three best practices you should definitely enforce as you set up your tenancy. So what are the policies you need to write if you have a setup like this where there's a tenancy administrator, but you are not using this account for day to day operations?

So what are some of the policies you need to give to these OCI administrators, so, in fact, they could be a proxy for the tenancy admin, and you could swap out the tenancy admin with the OCI admin?

There are some policies which you absolutely need to provide. So the first thing is you should provide access to manage all resources. I'm showing these policies in tenancy here, but you could scope them to a compartment as well. So you could say compartment ABC. You could have that name here. But you should provide access for the OCI admins to manage all resources, like a tenancy admin would do.

And then there are resource types for the IM service itself, which you need to use in policies so that the admins which are available in the OCI admin groups can use OCI Identity resource types. So for example, in IM, you don't have any aggregate resource type. So you have to use them individually.

So there is a resource type called domains. There's a resource type called users, groups, dynamic groups, policies, compartments. And there are some more identity providers, network sources, tag, defaults, tag namespaces, et cetera. I'm not listing to a whole set of resource types here.

But you have to write these policies, otherwise, OCI admins cannot create users. They cannot create groups. They cannot create policies. So if you have to give them access to manage policies, being able to create users, groups, et cetera, you should actually write these policies.

So this is the least amount of policies you need to write for the OCI admins in order for them to be kind of day to day admins for your tenancy. So hopefully, this is a quick lesson on how you can set up your tenancy following these best practices. I hope you found this lesson useful. Thanks for your time. 