Welcome to this lesson on instance basics. Let's look at some of the instance basics here. So when we say an instance, what we mean is a compute host. And it has several dependencies. So let's look at them.

So you have an Oracle Cloud region here. A region is comprised of multiple ADs. An AD is nothing but a data center, as you can see here. The first dependency the compute service has or compute hosts have is on Virtual Cloud Network. So in order to spin up a compute instance, you need a Virtual Cloud Network. As you can see here, you have a network divided into smaller portions called subnets. So you have a subnetwork here, and you need to create these before you can spin up a compute host.

Now you can spin up a compute host. It's a physical construct. Networking is a virtual construct. So how are they related? Within a compute host, you have a physical network interface card, and you virtualize that card. We virtualize that card-- give you this virtual NIC. And that virtual NIC is placed inside the subnet, as you can see here. And that's the association for the compute host. And that's where the private IP for the compute host comes from, because every compute host or VM you are running, or a bare metal machine, has a private IP address.

Now, there is another set of dependency the compute instances have, and that's to the boot volume and the boot disk and the block volumes. What do these mean? Well, each of these compute hosts you are spinning up has an operating system. And the image that's used to launch an instance determines its operating system and other software. So you have this concept of an image that comes from this network storage disk called a boot disk. So it doesn't stay on the compute host, it's actually living on the network somewhere.

And you also have data, like file systems, et cetera. You're working on the compute instances. They also live on the network. So there is the data disks and operating system disks together. There's a service called block volume service which the compute host uses to run its operating system and run its data disks. Now, these are remote storage, as you can see here. So just to recap, the compute control plane has dependency on the networking control plane and the block storage control plane.

There is one more feature which is really relevant when you are talking about compute instances, and that's live migration. We know that computers fail all the time. So how do we make sure that whatever compute host you are running is always up and running, itself? So we have this feature called live migrate. And the idea here is if one of the compute hosts goes down, there's a problem, we would migrate your VM to another host in our data center, and it will be transparent to you. There are multiple options you provide-- whether opt-in or opt-out-- you can choose from. But the idea is we migrate your virtual machines so you can live-migrate between hosts without rebooting. This keeps your applications running even during maintenance events. To achieve this in your own data centers is a not-so-trivial task, but we make that seamless within OCI.

So just to recap, in this lesson we looked at the basics of the control plane dependencies, and then we talked about live migration. I hope you found this lesson useful. Thanks for watching. 