Hello and welcome. In this lesson, let us look at OCI Container Instances. So containers have become the favored method of packaging, deploying, and managing modern applications. Meet Alex. Alex wants to test his containerized application, but without deploying it on OK as the scale is not large. At the same time, the application he wants to containerize are running isolated web applications or RESTful APIs. He's looking for a simple, quick, and secure way to run containers without managing any servers.

When you want a simple way to run a containerized application without using Kubernetes, you can provision a virtual machine, install a container runtime, and run your applications on it, as is shown in the diagram here. However, this process still increases the operational complexity, as you need to manage the VMs and the servers, patch the operating system, and update the container runtime regularly. So what is the solution?

OCI has a capability called OCI Container Instances. And these container instances offer the quickest and most straightforward way to launch containers without the need to handle virtual machines or adopt more advanced services like OK. By eliminating the operational complexity, OCI Container Instances enable users to run containerized applications without having to manage any infrastructures. User only need to supply the container image for their applications and OCI takes care of the underlying container runtime and compute resources.

You can specify environment variables, resource limits, startup options, et cetera for each container. And you can even run multiple containers on one container instances. The containers are hosted on fully-managed compute infrastructure that is specifically designed for container workloads, providing robust workload isolation for enhanced security. So that's it. Think of container instances as a serverless offering where you can run containers without really worrying about the underlying infrastructure. I hope you found this lesson useful. Thanks for your time. 