Welcome to this module on Oracle Functions. Functions is a serverless offering. You might wonder, what is serverless. Let's look into it.

So as you look at the journey on one axis, if you plot abstractions and other axis you plot this control, and in sort of decreasing concern, it's sort of a journey where you start with a Bare Metal machine where you have the access to the full machine, then there is Virtual Machines where you take that big Bare Metal server and you divide it into smaller segments which could all be run independently of each other, so you have this VMs.

And then there is a movement towards Container, you took all the VMs were very heavy, they took a lot of time to boot up, they led to even to low resource utilization, and lots of other issues, they were not portable, et cetera.

So we took all that and then we created Containers, where you have a container runtime, the containers share the OS kernel, and they have a little bit weaker security isolation, but they have a good resource isolation in terms of CPU and memory.

So they could drive your overall resource utilization, and the same time they are portable, so they really help in DevOps adoption. You write once, you could deploy anywhere, right, and that's why containers became really powerful.

And then there is this journey towards Functions, where you really write your code in a particular runtime, and then you don't worry about servers, you don't worry about any of the infrastructure, you just provide the code and the cloud provider is responsible for executing that code.

And one of the greatest advantages here is it truly leads you to a consumption based pricing model where you are only billed for the time your function is running. So you go from pay-as-you-go pricing to a completely consumption-based pricing, and that's one of the reasons why Function's adoption is increasing day by day.

So let's look at Oracle Functions and what are the key characteristics of this particular service. So the first thing is its Function as a Service. So you write code and the code is executed. Some people also like to call it as Event Driven Architecture, so some kind of event happens when function is invoked.

In reality, the functions run inside a container. You are billed only for the duration the function runs and it's capable of highly parallel execution. Now one thing which is also relevant in Oracle's case is Oracle Functions is powered by the Fn Project Open Source engine.

So unlike some of the other cloud vendors out there, this particular service is built on the open source Fn engine, open source engine. And we talked about some of the things you see on the right-hand side, it's a truly consumption-based pricing model, the service is sort of autonomous, it scales, it's capable of highly parallel execution, and it's event driven. You invoke the function and the quadrants based on that invocation.

So how does it really work in reality? The process is really straightforward. Let me walk you through the process. At a high level, your uploaded code and configuration is packaged as a container image and stored in the OCI Registry. Then you set up trigger actions. You can invoke using CLI or API, or OCI events can trigger it. And then Oracle Functions then executes the code in response to the trigger or invocation, which can then invoke any number of other integrations with other OCI services or even external systems.

The thing which makes it really interesting is it's a truly consumption-based pricing model. You pay for code execution time only. The other time when the function is just sitting there and not being called, you pay nothing for that. And as I discussed, the Functions has invocation, it can be triggered either directly or through something like an OCI events, and then it has integration to other OCI Services.

Now this is a very simplified view. A lot of other details on how the service works. It's very powerful, a lot of advanced capabilities. Given it's a foundational course, this sort of helps you understand how Oracle Functions work.

And that's it, serverless. Next time somebody says serverless, there are server, remember, there are servers, they are running in the data center, but you don't care. You give us your code and the code is executed. Even though it's called serverless, there are always servers running in the data center. I hope you found this lesson useful. Thanks for watching. 