Welcome to this demo on OCI block volume service. In this particular demo, we are going to attach a block volume to a running instance. And then what we're going to do is we are going to size up that volume to a bigger size using what is referred to as online resize. So let's get started.

I am logged on to my OCI console. And to bring up the block volume service, I'll click on Storage. And under Storage, you see Block Storage, Object Storage, and File Storage listed. So click on Block Storage. And this will bring up the menu to create block volume.

So you can see here, Create Block Volume is there. The button is there. And I have no block volumes running right now. So I'll click on Create Block Volume.

And it asks for a name. So I'll say this is block volume for a demo. I can create this in the sandbox compartment. That's the compartment we have been using for all of our resources.

And it picks an availability domain. It's an availability-domain-specific service because you are getting a remote storage disk in a data center. So that's what is being shown here, the different availability domains. I'll click 81.

And right here, I can go with the default size of 1,024 gig, or I can go with a custom size. Let me pick up custom. And let's say I want a disk which is only 100 gig in size. And I can go all the way from 50 gig to 32 terabytes.

And below that, you see these two toggle switches which are on autotuning. So what are these? Let me just explain very briefly.

So in case of block volume, there is something which is called block volume performance unit. And basically, this includes the concept of Volume Performance Units-- what is referred to as VPUs, what you see here. And the idea here is, you can purchase more we VPUs to allocate more resources to a volume increasing your IOPS per gig and through output per gig.

So as you can see here, the first thing you see here is if I'm getting 100 gig. And if I scroll down here, there are various sliders. So if I go with a lower cost, you can see that I get two IOPS per gig. That's the lowest tier.

If I go to the next higher tier, if I just move this mouse here, you can see this is the balanced tier. And balance tier basically gives me 60 IOPS per gig. So for 100 gig volume, I get 6,000 IOPS. And if I go to the next year, which is higher performance, I get 75 IOPS per gig, which is-- for 100 gig volume, that is 7,500 IOPS.

And as I start moving this slider, there is something called ultra-high performance. And for ultra-high performance, I go all the way from 90 IOPS per gig-- so you can see that here-- all the way to 225 IOPS per gig. So for 100 gig volume, I can get a maximum of 225,000 IOPS.

And as I increase the size here, let's see, if I go from 100 gig volume to a 2,000 gig volume, you can see I hit the maximum threshold, which is 300,000 IOPS, which is just amazing. It's a lot of IOPS for volume. So I can do that. Let me switch it back to 100.

And then there are two autotune capabilities here. Basically, the idea is if a volume is throttled and doesn't get the desired performance at its current performance setting, block volume or autotuning here-- actually, let me just turn it on-- basically, gradually increases and continues to monitor the volume's performance in increments of 10 VPUs per gig up to the maximum VPU.

So I can specify all the way from 10, let's say, I can specify to 40. And what this will do is it will set the threshold from 10 to 40. And it will let me handle spikes, which need, let's say, 9,000 IOPS or 10,000 IOPS. So I could actually do that. And so that's basically the performance-based autotune.

And there is also something called detached volume autotune, which, as you can read here, turning on detached volume autotune will change the volume's performance automatically to lower cost when it is detached. When it is reattached, the performance is automatically adjusted. So these are just features which help you save costs.

I'll leave these as is. 100 gig size is fine. And on here, you can set things like backup policies, cross region replication, whether block volume uses Oracle-managed keys to encrypt the data, which is always on by default, or you want to use your own vault and your own master encryption keys to encrypt the data. So I'll leave the default on here.

And then I'll click on Create Block Volume. And you will see that within a few seconds, the block volume will be created. And as soon as it is created, I'll go ahead and attach it to a compute instance.

If you recall from the previous demo, we had an instance created in this region in availability domain one. And if I access this, I'm connected to this instance using SSH. And if I list all my block devices for this particular instance, you can see right now, I only have the boot volume, which is 46.6 gig.

And the boot volume is a kind of a block volume, where operating system is kept. So when the instance initiates, stands up, it needs that operating system. And that's also kept on a remote storage disk referred to as the boot volume. So that's all which is there.

But once we attach the block volume to the instance, you will see that-- I can see that volume listed here as well. So let me just refresh this page and see if the block volume is up and running. And you can see it's available.

So if I click here now, it's pretty straightforward to attach it to an instance. I can see all the characteristics. And if I click on Attached Instance here, you can see there is no instance to which it's attached. So I can change that.

Click Attach To Instance. And I now get two attachment types-- ISCSI and paravirtualized. ISCSI basically means that we use the internal storage stack in the guest operating system, not the hypervisor, for attachment purposes. And paravirtualize basically means that virtualize the volume in hypervisor and attach to the instance as you can read here. So we'll choose a paravirtualization.

And then access type could be read, write or shareable. Now, we're not sharing this block volume with other instances, so I'm not using any of those options. Read, write is fine.

And then I can choose an instance here. Now, remember, this instance is running in 81, and that's why I was able to choose this particular instance. And then we also need to choose a device path so that it helps with instance reboots. I can use a consistent device path when the instance reboots, et cetera.

So let this get attached. And as it's doing so, next steps for me would be to go ahead and partition the disk. I could format the disk, install an operating system, and then I can mount that disk to the instance. But this is a foundational demo, so I'm going to skip those steps.

If I refresh the page, let me see if it's installed. Attached instances. Now, you can see, it's attached here.

So if I go back to my SSH window and if I run this command again, you will now see that the 100 gig disk is available. And I could create a mount point as right now, it's missing. But but you get the point that the disk is now available, and I can use it to store my data and perform all kinds of operations.

This was a quick demo on how to use block volumes. I hope you found this demo useful. Thanks for watching. 