Welcome back. Let's look at OCI File Storage Service. Before we dive deeper into the service, let us first look at what is file storage. Very simply, file storage is hierarchical collection of documents organized into name directories. All of us are familiar with it. Whether you are using Linux machines or you're using Windows machines, you are familiar with how you organize your files into folders and directories and several of them.

Now, the differences in the cloud, we have distributed file systems. These are not local to your machine. And the two most common ones we use are NFS for Linux, network file system, and server messaging block, SMB, for Windows. Both the protocols and the standards are supported by Unix and Windows. And there are lots of details around operating systems and hypervisors which support these.

So what are the use cases for file storage? Well, the first use case are, many of the enterprise applications, Oracle has applications like EBS, E-Business Suite, which really needs shared files storage. So that is provided by the file storage service.

There are general purpose file systems. All of us have used corporate directories where we have shared folders, where we keep our content. So that's an example of a general purpose file system. Microservices and containers actually are typically stateless.

And if you think about how we create these architectures, there has to be a place where you maintain the state for these microservices and containers. Many times, customers would use shared file system to manage that state. And there are several other use cases like HPCs, scale-out applications, analytics, and many more where you would use file storage service. So in a nutshell, how does file storage work?

As you can see in the picture here, you have a single data center in an OCI region. You have a couple of compute instances. They are all talking to the shared file system. And that's your OCI File Storage Service. So it's shared storage for compute instances.

Today, currently, we support NFSv3 as a distributed file system standard. You can take backup of the file system, what we call as snapshots. So that provides you protection. If your folders or directories get deleted, you can always take backups called snapshots.

And then we take security really seriously. So you have data at REST encryption. And you also have in-transit encryption, meaning when your compute instances are talking to the shared file system, that traffic is encrypted. Since this is a foundational course, we are not going deep into how you create a file system and the amount points and all the details. But the basic idea is you create a file system.

And then you mount it to the compute instances. And then you start using them. Many instances can share the same file system. And they can read and write from that file system. So that's it. File system, next time you're thinking about directories and folders and general purpose file system, think about using OCI file storage service. Thanks for watching. 