Welcome to this module on OCI security. Let's start with an introduction. So in security, you always hear this term called shared security model. What does this actually mean? Well, in an on-premises environment, you own the whole stack and you are responsible for security end-to-end.

As you move to the Cloud, some of the responsibilities transfer to the Cloud provider, in this case, Oracle, and some are retained by you. So that is what we mean by a shared security model. What does it look like in the Cloud?

Well, in the Cloud, Oracle Cloud Infrastructure is responsible for security of the Cloud, which means things like the physical data center, the physical network, the physical host, even virtualization layer, making sure it's fast and it's up to date. All those are responsibilities of Oracle. So that's basically the security of the Cloud.

You are responsible for security in the Cloud. What does that mean? Well, that means you are responsible for the data, you are responsible for the endpoints, devices, mobile or PCs or your servers of your PCs which are accessing them. And you are responsible for account and access management.

So identities and access management. And there are some other things you are responsible for like if you're using operating systems, you need to make sure they are patched and kept up to date. So this is the model in the Cloud. Some responsibilities shift to the Cloud provider. Some responsibilities are still retained by you.

So let us look at the OCI Security portfolio available currently with-- available currently in OCI. I have put in this slide the use cases and the services, so you really understand not just the services, but you also understand the context in which they operate.

In OCI, security is built in using the defense in-depth methodology, meaning security is built in at various layers of the stack. So a good way to represent this is break down these services by use cases, and then list the OCI Security services that are available for each use case.

So let's start at the very bottom with the infrastructure protection. And here you can see there are several services which are listed. Because this is an introduction lesson, I'm just going to go through these quickly and cover a couple of them at each layer.

So the first one here is a service called web application firewall. It protects applications from malicious and unwanted internet traffic. It can help mitigate layer 7 DDoS attacks. And then there is also a service, which is called network firewall. And that monitors your network for malicious activity. And it can help with intrusion, detection, and prevention.

So this layer is all about infrastructure protection. The layer on top of this is around identity and access management. And it primarily deals with your users who have access to your systems who are the users, and then what kind of level of access do they have? What kind of permissions do they have to your systems?

Then we also have services like multifactor authentication. And MFA or multifactor authentication is a method of authentication that requires the use of more than one factor to verify a user's identity. And then there are a few other services at this layer.

The next layer up is around operating system and workload protection. So like previous layers, this layer also has many services. Let me quickly touch on a couple of them. Shielded instances you see there, they are kind of a virtual machine that offer additional security for customers who need to meet strict compliance and security requirements.

So for example, one of the features in shielded instances is Secure Boot. And what it does is when a VM starts up, it only uses trusted software due to that Secure Boot. So that's one feature, which is there. And there are several other features.

Then we have something like dedicated VM host, which is a bare metal machine single tenant dedicated to you where you can run your VMs. And then we have a service like OS Management, which monitors and manages updates and patches, not just for a single machine, but literally could be thousands of machines, so at scale. So this layer is all about operating system and workload protection.

Then the next layer up is around data protection. This is super critical. The first two components you see here are related to a service, which is called Vault. This service helps you centrally manage the encryption keys that protect your data and the secret credentials like passwords that you use to access resources.

Now we also have a service called certificates, which lets you create and manage certificate authorities, also referred to as CAs and certificates themselves. So this layer all about is about the services that help meet the use cases for data protection.

Finally, we have this layer, which is called detection and remediation. It is also referred to as Cloud security posture management. The whole idea is to improve an organization's security posture. So the services here are continuously monitoring your environment.

And if they notice any kind of misconfiguration or user activities or operator activities, it can notify you. It can actually also automatically remediate the problem. So the first service listed there you see Cloud Guard is a service which does that. It does Cloud security posture management.

Then there's also a service called Security Zones. And think about this as the way it works is you designate your compartments as secure zones. And these comply with Oracle security policies. And you can define these policies like you cannot have public access, resources cannot have public access, encryption is required, et cetera.

And the resources you define in these Security Zones actually will comply with these security policies. So in a nutshell, this is a very high level overview of security services. But I hope that this gives you a good overview of how these security services are categorized based on the use cases. And how it is implemented in this defense in-depth mechanism where you have security built in at different layers of the stack.

So how does this all operate? As you can see in this graphic here, you have an environment where you have some virtual networks. And you are using various security services, whether it's vulnerability scanning, whether it's auditing, whether it's bastion service or the Vault or the identity access management service.

So again, in the next subsequent lesson, we'll get into many of these services in detail. But just keep in mind we have a very broad and extensive set of security services. So just to recap in the Cloud when you move to the Cloud, basically you get this shared security model, and you are responsible for some of the security aspects and the Cloud provider takes care of the other aspects.

And then security is not just one service or an add-on. There's a whole extensive set of services available in different layers of the stack. We went through-- went over some of those. Next lessons, we will look into some of these in greater details. I hope you found this lesson useful. Thanks for watching. 