Welcome to this lesson on Security Zones and Security Advisor. Security Zone is to configure a location in which you cannot disable security. Security Advisor is a service that unifies Security Zone, Cloud Guard, and some other capabilities together in a cohesive whole. In this lesson, we will look into both of these services.

So first, let's look at Security Zones. What are the Security Zones? Well, we talked about that you have resources in your compartments. As you can see here, you have two compartments called compartment A and compartment B. You could designate compartment B as a Security Zone. What does that mean?

Well, that means that this particular compartment, once it's assigned sort of this Security Zone nomenclature has a set of Security Zone recipes. These are nothing but your policies which get enforced here. And any time there's a policy violation, that operation is denied.

So what does that look like? Which services are supported? Well, the core primitives today are supported, including networking, storage, compute, and databases. What does that actually mean? Well, if you specify that subnet always have to be private, if you create a public subnet, that operation will be denied. If the rules says that the customer manage master encryption keys have to be used instead of provider manage encryption keys. And if that is violated, the operation will be denied.

So the idea is you take a portion of your tenancy, think about your own home. You have the most secure items you have, whether it's your passport or documents or jewelry or something else, you could keep that in a secure vault. Make it fire safe, et cetera, so it's protected in case of any kind of a breach or a natural disaster.

So the same idea applies here. You take your tenancy, not everything in your tenancy is super secure but some elements in your tenancy, some portions of it are going to be super secure. You create a Security Zones. Sometimes, it's also referred to as Max Security Zones. And the resources which are kept there have a kind of policies applied to them, recipes applied to them. And those policies cannot be violated.

The simple way to think about for security zones. Security advisor is really a combination service that takes the functionality that's provided by Cloud Guard and Security Zone as well as some of the other security services and bring them together. So in a way, it's our own point of view on how security should be done. The services which are supported today are object storage, files storage, block volume, and virtual machines.

And again, some of the examples we talked about earlier, buckets cannot be public. And that can be enforced by Security Advisor. The Security Advisor will walk you through on how to create a bucket in a Security Zone. And it comes with its own set of requirements.

You have to use a customer manage key and so on and so forth. So Security Advisor would actually go through the steps required to do that. In a demo, we can take a look at how it works. And then you will understand it it a little bit better compared to just going through the slides.

Just to recap. These two again are a unique services. Security zones configure a location in which you cannot disable security. Security Advisor unifies Security Zone, Cloud Guard, or other security capabilities together in a cohesive whole. I hope you find this lesson useful. Thanks for watching. 